Garberoglio2014mix
abstract="A recent high-accuracy three-dimensional potential is used to compute the cross second virial coefficient B12(T) between helium and molecular hydrogen. These calculations fully account for both quantum effects (with the path-integral Monte Carlo method) and the flexibility of the hydrogen molecule. The effect of flexibility is relatively small (only slightly larger than the expanded uncertainty of our results), but the full quantum mechanical approach is essential to obtain correct results at cryogenic temperatures. Values are calculated from 8 K to 2000 K; the uncertainty of the potential is propagated into uncertainties of B12. Similar calculations are performed for He with the isotopologues D2, T2, HD, HT, and DT. Comparison is made with the experimental data for the He/H2 binary, and with the limited data available for He/D2 and He/HD. The calculated B12(T)’s are generally consistent with the experimental results, but have lower uncertainties."

Scribano2011
Abstract = {The second virial coefficient, B12(T), of the H2O-H2 system has been calculated ab initio over the temperature range 200-700 K. A semi-classical method was employed with two recent accurate potential energy surfaces. The agreement with experimental data is good, although experimental error bars are much larger than the theoretical uncertainties. We show that highly correlated potentials are required for an accuracy better than 30%. [ABSTRACT FROM AUTHOR]}

Jacobsen2007
abstract="This article presents a survey of the thermodynamic properties of normal hydrogen and parahydrogen and gives comparisons of properties calculated from the standard models to available experimental data. Motivated by the fact that the currently accepted standards for the thermodynamic properties of hydrogen were based on experimental and correlation work completed before the mid-1980s, an assessment of the accuracy of property values for analysis and design of new systems at high and low temperatures and pressures is provided. Property values measured and published after the completion of the current standards for both normal hydrogen and parahydrogen are included in the comparisons. Recommendations for new experimental data needed and for new thermodynamic property formulations for normal hydrogen and parahydrogen are included.",

Hodges2004
Abstract = {We construct a rigid-body (five-dimensional) potential-energy surface for the water–hydrogen complex using scaled perturbation theory (SPT). An analytic fit of this surface is obtained, and, using this, two minima are found. The global minimum has C[sub 2v] symmetry, with the hydrogen molecule acting as a proton donor to the oxygen atom on water. A local minimum with C[sub s] symmetry has the hydrogen molecule acting as a proton acceptor to one of the hydrogen atoms on water, where the OH bond and H[sub 2] are in a T-shaped configuration. The SPT global minimum is bound by 1097 μE[sub h] (E[sub h]≈4.359 744×10[sup -18] J). Our best estimate of the binding energy, from a complete basis set extrapolation of coupled-cluster calculations, is 1076.1 μE[sub h]. The fitted surface is used to calculate the second cross virial coefficient over a wide temperature range (100–3000 K). Three complementary methods are used to quantify quantum statistical mechanical effects that become significant a},


